README.md, before:

# ipa

![GitHub Workflow Status](https://img.shields.io/github/workflow/status/msAlcantara/ipa/Test) ![License](https://img.shields.io/github/license/msAlcantara/ipa) ![Lastest Version](https://img.shields.io/github/v/release/msalcantara/ipa)

Ipa is another dotfiles manager, that can be used to **install and configure** (only to Arch Linux installation for now) programs using a configuration file.


## Motivation

The principal motivation with this project is to learn about Rust development and create a tool that can be used.

### Installation

You can install ipa using prebuilt binaries from [GitHub release page](https://github.com/msAlcantara/ipa/releases/latest). Make sure that **glibc** is installed

## Configuration
Ipa use a yaml configuration file that you can describe all packages and config files that you want to install.
The configuration file is divided between groups, so you can create groups of configs and setup them individually latter.

### Example

``` yaml
gui: # group gui
  - link:
      src: ~/.dotfiles/config/i3blocks/config
      dst: ~/.config/i3blocks/config

  - package:
      name: i3
    link:
      src: ~/.dotfiles/config/i3/config
      dst: ~/.config/i3/config

  - shell:
      command: git clone https://github.com/vivien/i3blocks-contrib ~/.config/i3blocks/

dev: # group dev
  - link:
      src: ~/.dotfiles/config/git/gitconfig
      dst: ~/.gitconfig
      relink: true

  - package:
      name: neovim
    link:
      src: ~/.dotfiles/config/nvim
      dst: ~/.config/nvim/
      relink: true

    - package:
        name: tmux
      link:
          src: ~/.dotfiles/tmux/tmux.conf
          dst: ~/.tmux.conf
      shell:
          command: git clone https://github.com/tmux-plugins/tpm ~/.tmux/plugins/tpm
```

Ipa will search for file called `dotfiles.yml` on the root of directory, so you can just call `ipa`, but, you can use the flag `-f` too specify a custom file name.


### Options
You can configure ipa to install packages and create symbolic links of your config files.

#### Link
The `link` is responsible for creating symbolically links. If necessary, items can be configured to be relinked, overwriting the current files. Environment variables are automatically expanded if used. If the directory of destination file does not exists, ipa will create automatically, if you want disable this behaviour you can disable with `create: false`

#### Format

| Parameter | Description                                                    |
| --------- | ---------------------------------------------------------------|
| src       | Source of config file to create a symbolically link.           |
| dst       | Destination config file to be created.                         |
| relink    | Force overwriting file if allready exists (Default false).     |
| create    | Create sub directory in dst path if not exists (Default true). |


#### Example

```yaml
some_group:
    link:
        - src: ~/.dotfiles/config/ # Will link all files into ~/.config
          dst: ~/.config
          relink: true
```

### Package
The `package` is responsible for installing the programs.

#### Format
| Parameter | Description                                  |
| --------- | ---------------------------------------------|
| name      | Name of the package.                         |


#### Example
```yaml
some_group:
    package:
        - name: neovim
```

### Shell
The `shell` is responsible to execute bash scripts

#### Format
| Parameter | Description              |
| --------- | -------------------------|
| command   | Bash command to execute. |


#### Example
```yaml
some_group:
    shell:
        - command: nvim +PlugInstall +qall
```

## Usage

Install all sessions of config file.
```bash
$ ipa -f config.yml
```


Install only packages/links that have `group` dev
```bash
$ ipa -f config.yml --only dev
```

Install only packages/links that **dont't** have `group` dev
```bash
$ ipa -f config.yml --except dev
```


## License
[MIT](https://github.com/msAlcantara/ipa/blob/master/LICENSE)

Commit message:

docs: add installation using cargo

README.md, after:

# ipa

![GitHub Workflow Status](https://img.shields.io/github/workflow/status/msAlcantara/ipa/Test) ![License](https://img.shields.io/github/license/msAlcantara/ipa) ![Lastest Version](https://img.shields.io/github/v/release/msalcantara/ipa)

Ipa is another dotfiles manager, that can be used to **install and configure** (only to Arch Linux installation for now) programs using a configuration file.


## Motivation

The principal motivation with this project is to learn about Rust development and create a tool that can be used.

### Installation

You can install ipa using prebuilt binaries from [GitHub release page](https://github.com/msAlcantara/ipa/releases/latest). Make sure that **glibc** is installed

#### Using Cargo

You can also install ipa using cargo

```bash
$ cargo install ipa
```

## Configuration
Ipa use a yaml configuration file that you can describe all packages and config files that you want to install.
The configuration file is divided between groups, so you can create groups of configs and setup them individually latter.

### Example

``` yaml
gui: # group gui
  - link:
      src: ~/.dotfiles/config/i3blocks/config
      dst: ~/.config/i3blocks/config

  - package:
      name: i3
    link:
      src: ~/.dotfiles/config/i3/config
      dst: ~/.config/i3/config

  - shell:
      command: git clone https://github.com/vivien/i3blocks-contrib ~/.config/i3blocks/

dev: # group dev
  - link:
      src: ~/.dotfiles/config/git/gitconfig
      dst: ~/.gitconfig
      relink: true

  - package:
      name: neovim
    link:
      src: ~/.dotfiles/config/nvim
      dst: ~/.config/nvim/
      relink: true

    - package:
        name: tmux
      link:
          src: ~/.dotfiles/tmux/tmux.conf
          dst: ~/.tmux.conf
      shell:
          command: git clone https://github.com/tmux-plugins/tpm ~/.tmux/plugins/tpm
```

Ipa will search for file called `dotfiles.yml` on the root of directory, so you can just call `ipa`, but, you can use the flag `-f` too specify a custom file name.


### Options
You can configure ipa to install packages and create symbolic links of your config files.

#### Link
The `link` is responsible for creating symbolically links. If necessary, items can be configured to be relinked, overwriting the current files. Environment variables are automatically expanded if used. If the directory of destination file does not exists, ipa will create automatically, if you want disable this behaviour you can disable with `create: false`

#### Format

| Parameter | Description                                                    |
| --------- | ---------------------------------------------------------------|
| src       | Source of config file to create a symbolically link.           |
| dst       | Destination config file to be created.                         |
| relink    | Force overwriting file if allready exists (Default false).     |
| create    | Create sub directory in dst path if not exists (Default true). |


#### Example

```yaml
some_group:
    link:
        - src: ~/.dotfiles/config/ # Will link all files into ~/.config
          dst: ~/.config
          relink: true
```

### Package
The `package` is responsible for installing the programs.

#### Format
| Parameter | Description                                  |
| --------- | ---------------------------------------------|
| name      | Name of the package.                         |


#### Example
```yaml
some_group:
    package:
        - name: neovim
```

### Shell
The `shell` is responsible to execute bash scripts

#### Format
| Parameter | Description              |
| --------- | -------------------------|
| command   | Bash command to execute. |


#### Example
```yaml
some_group:
    shell:
        - command: nvim +PlugInstall +qall
```

## Usage

Install all sessions of config file.
```bash
$ ipa -f config.yml
```


Install only packages/links that have `group` dev
```bash
$ ipa -f config.yml --only dev
```

Install only packages/links that **dont't** have `group` dev
```bash
$ ipa -f config.yml --except dev
```


## License
[MIT](https://github.com/msAlcantara/ipa/blob/master/LICENSE)
